---
title: On The Lord of the Rings
day: "2024/01/01"
---

<h2 style="text-align: center;">On The Lord of the Rings</h2>

Hi old and new friends! This marks my first blog post on my site, which I thought would be a nice start to <a href="https://100daystooffload.com/" target="_blank">#100DaysToOffload</a>, which I'm doing this year. April 9(?) should be the last day. This post is larger in scope than the others, and the goal is just to improve my writing skills.

As many of my friends can testify, I am an fanatical LotR fan. I start a new reread attempt every few months at least. There's many paragraphs I can remember by heart, and so many quotes I recite on a daily basis. The film score lulls me to sleep, and I constantly compare the world around me to passages from the books. I've been a Hobbit for at least 4 Halloweens. I want to take some time and reflect on what draws me to this world and its inhabitants.

To start, I want to praise Tolkien's writing style for a bit. LotR is often criticized for the lengthy and flowery prose, and you know what? I get it! Everyone wants something different from reading and writing, that's what makes them so wonderful. The writings in these books just scratch some itch I'd never known before. I find a lot of the time the tone of descriptions and diaglogue is rather cooler than other comparable works. With careful word choice, Tolkien ensures that you understand all the protaganists, but that you don't feel entirely fit into their heads. This goes great with the rather fickle couse that some passages take. Tolkien isn't afraid to rip you straight from a conversation into a lengthy description of the scenery or vibe of a new region. As much as this illustrates the constant wonder of Frodo and his companions at the vastness and variety in their world, it plays with the reader's attention. To me, it's almost saying "Look how small they are. Look how little this corner of the continent cares for the stakes". This puts me in almost a "cinematic camera" point of view, detaching my train of thought from the party in order to apprecate the natural beauty of the world. It's well known that Tolkien was a nature lover, and passages like these are clear examples of how he incorporates this love. These devices lend themselves well to the overall themes of smallness and unimportance. The only way the Free Peoples were able to beat Sauron was by subverting his expectations and not sending a massive armed escort to destroy the Ring. This also manifests in smallness of ambition, where the Ring held more power over those who had massive plans for the world. Frodo only wanted to fix the whole mess as nicely as possible, and this is why he was able to resist for so long. This is why I love Tolkien's prose; it is a constant reminder of the nature of his world.

The "moral", if you will, or rather the main idea, that even the smallest and most unimportant people can make a difference in the world, is just perfect. Name a person on earth who doesn't wake up at some mornings feeling small and unimportant. That idea coupled with the theme of hope in dark places really makes navigating the modern world... not easier, but better to stomach, I guess. Ideas like this are what drive me to perform activism, to stand up for others who can't, and to stand up for myself. Another essential lesson is that of fighting for and saving things, even if we don't get to enjoy them. This one is something I need to work on myself. Sometimes it's hard to put energy into something where you're not sure you will see the outcome. It seems hopeless, and a lack of certainty on the outcomes of your work does little to hearten you. But this world goes round thanks to people who work tirelessly for fruits they will never taste, results never experienced. I deeply want every person on this world to have a chance at a long and fulfulling life in this beautiful Eden, and that's why I'm a humanitarian and an envionmentalist. No matter how hard it might become, these are the principals I want to drive my work, not the thought of personal gain.

Now about the films. As many Youtubers can more effectively tell you, the very fact that the films exist in their state is a miracle. Who in their right mind would give so much money to a relatively inexperienced director to make such a film, let alone a trilogy of them? What are the chances of such films being created at the infancy of realistic CGI, one of the most pivotal moments in the film industry? I mostly want to praise the beautiful sets and editing that make these films the way they are. The Fellowship of the Ring remains my favorite film, largely for the beautiful contrast. Going from the idyllic Shire hills and comfortable Bag End to temperate forests, uncaring mountain ranges, and wide rivers. Now that I'm getting into filmmaking myself, rewatching just brings new excitement as I'm able to identify styles and technique.

 MUSIC. Oh my god. Howard Shore is a master composer and conductor to have pulled off this incredible feat. His knowledge on how to completely emotionally control a movie audiece should be illegal. Every measure is masterfully crafted and shows a complete understanding and fierce love for the works of Tolkien. As a big fan of charactarization in music, I especially admire how video game and film scores are able to subconsciously make the listener remember events or characters. Shore used dozens of leitmotifs to accomplish this task, and each one sends shivers down your spine with the absolute perfection. You can almost tell exactly what is happening on screen and how the characters feel based on the music. It's such a comfort listen for me. It puts me in a very mindful and thankful state, where I'm appreciative of even the smallest things in life. The vocal work with a variety of performers leaves each track feeling fresh and highlights the variety in the world (e.g. the Rivendell elves vs the Lothlorien elves). One of the best movie sountracks I've heard, and I love my movie sountracks.

Anyway, I hope this helped you and me get a grasp on how much this series means to me. It's highly likely I'll write more on LotR in the future, especially when I don't know what to do for a day. Don't expect this much writing next time, this took me about 4 days to get through. Goodbye and farewell for tonight, and happy 2024!

<small>Footnotes/Unconnected thoughts I want to keep track of:
1. Really not a fan of how Peter Jackson cut out so much of Fellowship. I mean, I understand why he did it (and if I had his knowledge I would likely do something similar), but it's a shame because so many of my favorite bits were in there. Notably, the entire element of planning and careful preparation and coordination with Gandalf and the elves and the rangers and the Hobbits to get Frodo to Rivendell. Always a comfort read for me knowing just how many people were out there helping off the page. I also lament the loss of Tom Bombadil and one of my favorite extended storytelling bits during the Hobbits' layover. He was not very important to the actual events that took place, but the things/themes they discussed come up lots throughout the story later. Someday I might write about a certain extended metaphor that comes to mind with him, but I'm not confident enough yet to name.
2. I didn't mention the Silmarillion/other extended sources simply because I don't have that much experience with them. A lot of them I have started and not finished. I'm hoping to get a taste for even odder prose than usual to help me through them.</small>