---
title: On Desire
day: "2024/01/06"
---

<h2 style="text-align: center;">On Desire</h2>

I want to be dependable.<br>
I want people to set their clocks by my routines.<br>
I want them to entrust me with something precious, a secret, a date, a task, and know that I will take care of it.<br>
I want a dozen arms to hold everyone. I want a hundred minds to remember everyone. I want a thousand bodies to be with everyone.<br>
I want to understand.<br>
I want enough pity for a continent, compassion for a world, empathy for the universe.<br>
I want the patience of stone, the compromise of earth, the changing of water.<br>
I want to listen to the land, the animals, the skies, and everything beyond.<br>
I want to exist beyond my body, my spirit, my means, if only to bring others comfort.<br>
I want to be a willow tree and yet be the storm battering it.<br>
I want to contain multitudes and yet be approachable, real.<br>
I want to be human.<br>
I want every greivance, no matter how small, against my fellows to set my soul aflame, send tears down my cheeks, and embolden my body for conflict.<br>
I want humanity's every triumph, no matter how small, to lighten my life like the setting sun.<br>
I want to drink humanity in, understand the depths and heights that define us, the dreams that drive us, the things that hurt and kill us.<br>
I want to feel my heart beat and my lungs fill and know that everywhere everyone's body is doing the same and will continue to do the same.<br>
I want to LIVE, and I'm lucky to get to.

<small>This was written after the Jan 7 blockade of I-5 in Seattle, attended by myself.</small>