---
title: On This Website
day: "2024/01/04"
---

<h2 style="text-align: center;">On This Website</h2>

Out of not really having anything else to talk about today (It was still eventful but nothing I want to get into on here yet), I thought I'd diary some of the ideas behind and for this site just to get them squared away. At some point I should add them to About, but I don't want that page too bloated with all the blinkies. I shouldn't be scared of large pages. I don't know.

Most important, website architecture. I'm running a clean ship here: All HTML and CSS, no JS, no backlinking, and no large page sizes. Why no JS, you may ask. I'll preface this by saying I have quite of bit of JS experience. I know that it can be extremely powerful in the right hands. I just don't think my hands are the right ones! For one, I don't have any real use cases. I'm not implementing ads or popups, I don't need smooth animations and beautiful embedded content, and I certainly am not tracking you or trying to get you on my email list. Secondly, JS is pretty tight these days, but it's not foolproof. I'm no security expert (My friends will recall the time I uploaded a Discord bot token to GitHub) and don't really plan to be. This is a one person operation, and it's easier to just forgo the use. Besides, have you read that lovely article in the footer?

Of course, limiting myself to no JS is going to be a tricky road. Everything needs to be a static page essentially. I plan to continue this as long as possible, but cracks are already starting to appear. For example, this blog page is atrocious. Remind myself to redo it soon. Maybe tomorrow if I have free time. There are tools I am looking into that can automatically recompile a static webpage from dynamic specs you set, such as making a recent articles pane that updates by itself. Don't think that is possible to host on GitHub though, so I'd need to have an improved setup (Which may be possible as early as this spring!)

One last thing I want to talk about is the other content on this site. I hope I can get into the habit of blogging at least a few times a week after these 100 days are over, but I also want to have other things hosted here. I plan to expand/refurbish my Collections page soon, adding other media I like and perhaps separating it into several pages if the page becomes too cumbersome to navigate. I also want to host some of my artwork, such as my photography and poetry. I'll bet none of you knew I wrote poetry and never shared it with anyone, did you? Haha I sure got you there.

Sliding this one out of the oven a 15 minutes before midnight. By the way, if anyone is reading these, do let me know. Screaming into the void is one thing but an echo is fun as well. Sweet dreams mis amigos.